# The Roaring 20s
## Timeline
1. Inauguration of [Warren G. Harding](../people/harding_warren.md)
2. [Emergency Quota Law](../policies/emergency_quota_law.md) was signed
3. Teapot Home Scandal
    - <ins>Albert Fall</ins>, Secretary of Interior, gave away federal-reserved lands in exchange for oil companies' bribes
    - Invoked cynicism of the federal government in the masses
4. Inauguration of [Calvin Coolidge](../people/coolidge_calvin.md)
5. [The Scopes Trial](../events/scopes_trial.md)
6. Inauguration of [Herbert Hoover](../people/hoover_herbert.md)
7. **Washington Naval Conference of 1912**
    - **Five Power Treaty**
        - Limited the battleships of the largest navies
        - US, Great Britain, Japan, France, and Italy (somehow France and Italy gets decimal points)
    - **Nine-Power Treaty**
        - All powers involved in the Open Door Policy
        - Agreement to respect the ODP and the territorial integrity of China
8. [Dawes Plan](../policies/dawes_plan.md), 1924
9. [Kellogg-Briand Pact](../policies/kellogg-briand.md), 1928
10. [Stock Market Crash](../events/stock_market_crash.md); Oct 24, 1929
11. [The Great Depression](../events/great_depression.md)
12. Japan's invades Manchuria, 1931
13. [Bonus Army](../events/bonus_march.md), 1932
14. Inauguration of [Franklin D. Roosevelt](../people/roosevelt_franklin.md), 1933
15. Legislation of [the New Deal](../policies/new_deal.md)
16. Italy invades Ethiopia, 1935
17. Germany invades Austria to "unite German speaking people"; Mar 12-13, 1938
18. [Munich Conference](munich_conference.md), Sep 30
19. German-Soviet Nonaggression Pact, 1939
    - 10 year nonaggression between Germany and the Soviet Union
20. Spanish Civil War ended with Francisco Franco, [fascist](../policies/fascism.md), winning the war
21. Germany and the USSR [invades Poland](../events/invasion_poland.md) on Sep 1, [WWII](../events/wwii.md) starts
22. Japan initiates suprise attack on [Pearl Harbor](../events/pearl_harbor.md); Dec 7, 1941
23. US joins the Allies against the Axis

## Causes
- [WWI](../events/wwi.md)
    - Low post-war morale
    - Increased economy from allies' trades

## Effects
- Increased the federal government's civil involvement
    - "Safety Net"
    - Intervene economy
    - Promote general welfare
    - Deliver public services

## Movements
- [Harlem Renaissance](../events/harlem_renaissance.md)
- [Science v. Fundamentalism](../events/scopes_trial.md)
- Consumerism
- Republicanism
    - Nativism & isolationism
    - Low taxes
    - Limited government
- [The Red Scare](../events/red_scare.md)
